Add beta docs for DBM Aurora cluster auto discovery feature (#21985)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/database_monitoring/guide/aurora_autodiscovery.md

---
title: Automatically configure your aurora clusters for monitoring
kind: guide
---

{{< beta-callout url="#" btn_hidden="true" >}}

> Aurora cluster auto discovery is in **beta**. If you have any feedback about this feature, please [contact support](https://docs.datadoghq.com/help/).

Reviewer: > [contact support](https://docs.datadoghq.com/help/)
inline link doesn't seem to work

{{< /beta-callout >}}

> This guide assumes that you have configured [Database Monitoring][1] for your Aurora hosts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide assumes that you have configured [Database Monitoring][1] for your Amazon Aurora DB clusters.
```

## Before you begin

Supported databases
: Postgres, MySQL

Supported Agent versions
: 7.53.0+ (Not currently released)

## Agent Installation

// TODO: Add the installation steps for the beta agent

## Overview

The Datadog Agent supports configuring automatic discovery and monitoring of your aurora clusters. This feature works in lieu of manually configuring the Agent by listing individual database host endpoints.

> This is helpful for environments where the number of endpoints can be dynamic, such as with clusters that use [Aurora Auto Scaling][6].

Reviewer: Auto Scale will be the only reason that causes dynamic number of hosts right? Wonder if we should just say "This is helpful for Aurora clusters with auto-scaling enabled, automatically adjusting the number of read replicas in response to workload variations."

This features leverages the Agent [Autodiscovery feature][4] and lets you define configuration templates for Postgres or MySQL checks, and specify which clusters each check should apply to.

## How it works

This utilizes an Agent service listener, responsible for discovering all database host endpoints in an aurora cluster and forwarding discovered endpoints to the existing Agent check scheduling pipeline. You can configure the listener in the `datadog.yaml` file:

```yaml
database_monitoring:
  autodiscovery:
    aurora:
      enabled: true
```

By default, the listener will discover all aurora clusters in the account and region where the Agent is running that have the `datadoghq.com/scrape:true` tag applied. You can also configure the listener to discover clusters with specific tags.

> Specify custom tags for the aurora cluster discovery in the `datadog.yaml` file:

Reviewer: should we link an aws doc on how to add/modify tags for aurora?

Author: yes, i'll do that

```yaml
database_monitoring:
  autodiscovery:
    aurora:
      enabled: true
      tags:
        - "my-cluster-tag"
```

The listener queries the AWS API for the list of hosts in a loop. The frequency with which the listener queries the AWS API, in seconds, is configurable in the `datadog.yaml` file:

```yaml
database_monitoring:
  autodiscovery:
    aurora:
      enabled: true
      discovery_interval: 300
```

## Enabling aurora cluster discovery

### Prerequisites

It's required that the Agent has permission to run `rds:DescribeDBClusters` and `rds:DescribeDBInstances` in your AWS account. The recommended way to do this, is to attach an IAM role policy to the EC2 instance where the Agent is running.

An example policy that grants the required permissions is:

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "rds:DescribeDBClusters",
        "rds:DescribeDBInstances"
      ],

>       "Resource": "*"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      "Resource": "arn:aws:rds:<region>:<account>:cluster:<name>"
```

### Agent installation

To use this feature, you need to install a beta version of the Agent.

The beta version can be found [here][9]. You can use the Agent installation script to install the correct version by running the following command:

```bash
DD_API_KEY=${API_KEY} DD_SITE="datadoghq.com" \
DD_AGENT_DIST_CHANNEL=beta DD_AGENT_MAJOR_VERSION=7 \
DD_AGENT_MINOR_VERSION=52.0~dbm~aurora~autodiscovery~beta~0.3-1 \
bash -c "$(curl -L https://s3.amazonaws.com/dd-agent/scripts/install_script_agent7.sh)"
```

For more information on installing the Datadog Agent, please read the following [documentation][10].

### AWS permissions

It's required that the Agent has permission to run `rds:DescribeDBClusters` and `rds:DescribeDBInstances` in your AWS account. The recommended way to do this, is to attach an IAM role policy to the EC2 instance where the Agent is running.

An example policy that grants the required permissions is:

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "rds:DescribeDBClusters",
        "rds:DescribeDBInstances"
      ],

>       "Resource": "arn:aws:rds:<region>:<account>:cluster:<name>"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      "Resource": [
        "arn:aws:rds:<region>:<account>:cluster:*",
        "arn:aws:rds:<region>:<account>:db:*"
      ],
```

Reviewer: the listener scrapes all clusters and dbs so `*` is required here

Author: yes, thanks 🙇

    }
  ]
}
```

You can also attach the [AmazonRDSReadOnlyAccess][3] policy.

### Configure aurora

By default, the listener discovers all aurora clusters in the account and region where the Agent is running that have the `datadoghq.com/scrape:true` tag applied. You can also configure the Agent to discover clusters with specific tags.

> The tags must be applied to the DB cluster (Role: `Regional clutser`). For more information on tagging RDS resources, see the [AWS documentation][7].

Reviewer: > (Role: `Regional clutser`)

What does `Role` mean?

Author: the role of the instance, it should be on the cluster and not the individual instances,  but maybe that's already clear?

<img width="1072" alt="Screenshot 2024-03-03 at 1 14 33 PM" src="https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/assets/14317240/e9cfebf5-50ae-435a-8156-2d8ec97c03bf">

Reviewer: ahh i didn't know this is called `Role` in the console.

```yaml
database_monitoring:
  autodiscovery:
    aurora:
      enabled: true
```

**Note**: The Agent only discovers Aurora instances running in the same region as the Agent. In order to discover the region, the Agent uses [IMDS (Instance Metadata Service)][8] to determine the region where it is running. If your Ec2 instance requires `IMDSv2`, you need to configure the Agent to use `IMDSv2` by setting `ec2_prefer_imdsv2: true` in the `datadog.yaml`.

Specify IMDSv2 in the `datadog.yaml` file:

```yaml
ec2_prefer_imdsv2: true
database_monitoring:
  autodiscovery:
    aurora:
      enabled: true
```

By default, the listener discovers all aurora clusters in the account and region where the Agent is running that have the `datadoghq.com/scrape:true` tag applied. You can also configure the listener to discover clusters with specific tags.

Specify custom tags for the aurora cluster discovery in the `datadog.yaml` file:

```yaml
database_monitoring:
  autodiscovery:
    aurora:
      enabled: true
      tags:

>         - "my-cluster-tag"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - "my-cluster-tag-key:value"
```
<!-- Nitpicks are small, trivial, but necessary changes. Distinguishing nitpick comments significantly helps direct the reader's attention to comments requiring more involvement.  -->
**nitpick:** ‏just to make it clear it needs to follow the `<KEY>:<VALUE>` pattern

---
title: Automatically configure your aurora clusters for monitoring
kind: guide
---

{{< beta-callout url="#" btn_hidden="true" >}}

> Aurora cluster auto discovery is a beta feature. If you have any feedback about this feature, contact Support at support@datadoghq.com.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Autodiscovery for Aurora clusters is a beta feature. If you have any feedback about this feature, contact support at support@datadoghq.com.
```

{{< /beta-callout >}}

> This guide assumes that you have configured Database Monitoring for your Amazon Aurora [Postgres][1] or [MySQL][11].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide assumes that you have configured Database Monitoring for your Amazon Aurora [Postgres][1] or [MySQL][11] databases.
```

## Before you begin

Supported databases
: Postgres, MySQL

Supported Agent versions
: 7.53.0+ (Not yet released)

> In order to use this feature now, you need to install the beta version of the Agent. See the installation instructions below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use this feature, you need to install the beta version of the Agent. See the [Agent installation](#agent-installation) section on this page.
```

## Overview

> The Datadog Agent supports configuring automatic discovery and monitoring of your Aurora clusters. This feature works in lieu of manually configuring the Agent by listing individual database host endpoints.
> 
> This is helpful for Aurora clusters with [auto-scaling enabled][6], automatically adjusting the number of read replicas in response to workload variations.
> 
> This features leverages the Agent [Autodiscovery feature][4] and lets you define configuration templates for Postgres or MySQL checks, and specify which clusters each check should apply to.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Datadog's [Autodiscovery][4] enables you to configure monitoring in dynamic infrastructures. You can use this feature to monitor your Aurora clusters without having to list individual database host endpoints. This is especially helpful for clusters that use [Aurora Auto Scaling][6], which dynamically adjusts the number of Aurora Replicas in response to variations in connectivity or workload.

With Autodiscovery and Database Monitoring, you can define configuration templates for Postgres or MySQL checks and specify which clusters to apply each check to.
```

> ## Enabling Aurora cluster discovery

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Enabling Autodiscovery for Aurora clusters
```

---

> title: Automatically configure your aurora clusters for monitoring

Reviewer 2: I'm dithering on a good title for this page @jhgilbert

> title: Configuring Database Monitoring for Amazon Aurora DB Clusters

Reviewer 3: @ceciliawatt I agree with your sentiments around avoiding too much focus on autodiscovery. Autodiscovery is the how, not the what. Thoughts on this title? I took it straight from the guide link.

Author: That looks good to me
